# 2026-02-25

* note taker today: Drew Wiseman

## Agenda

1. Questions
2. New stuff
3. Lab 6
4. Exam 1

## Notes
Lab 6 autograder not yet posted.
"Cheat" Sheet allowed for exam.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/16GQ-83gaJLzrz53lsCOi1EFF7i0JlW6xgJ8xv38nFPY/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.c9lgs3eh5a0u
    - Helpful link for dereferencing exam content to readings



### Questions

* selecting all the form elements
    * prep 6
* question from stewart
    * when can there come to be a race between
        * css and the html?
            * what if js dynamically modifies the dom (e.g. adds an element) how does js then tell the browser to re-eval the css and apply it to the new elem(s)?
        * js and the html?
            * if your page isn't fully loaded but the js is trying to interact with the page...
                * 9.3
                    * click
                    * DOMContentLoaded
                        * put your script at the end of the <body>

### Event Types

* submit event !== click event (on a form submit button)
    * forms can be submitted with other means of UI than clicking mouse (e.g. keyboard), click would miss it
    * submit has default behavior that frontend devs often don't want (or at least we want to limit)
* input vs. change watch out
* other form event
    * focus/blur

### persistence

* how/can we persist?
* localStorage
    * devtools

### js objects

const studentData = {
    name: 'albert',

}
studentData['name] = 'Albert' 


#### Javascript Object Notation (JSON)

* keys must be quoted, no trailing commas, idk what happens with functions
* in browser api, we have helpers:
    * JSON.parse(thatLongString)
    * JSON.stringify(thatHugeObject)

### Exam 1

* when reviewing, if i see a topic and don't know where in the book/prep/lab/activities it was...
    * good question. sorry. not a great index anywhere, but at least on our [calendar page](https://w3.cs.jmu.edu/cs343/s26/calendar/), the link at the top to [the Reading Schedule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16GQ-83gaJLzrz53lsCOi1EFF7i0JlW6xgJ8xv38nFPY/edit?usp=sharing) will sort of help?