# 2026-02-18

* notetaker: Frank Hyun

1. js styling
    1. bad (as presented in prep)
    2. good: classList
2. events
    1. click
    2. DOMContentLoaded
    3. bubbling vs. capturing
        1. delegation

# In chapter 9, they're talking about:
- What is DOM?
    - Document root, nodes, sibling nodes, parent node, child nodes
One of the ways to understand the DOM is by a tree structure, and this tree is more general
The root element has descendants (child, grandchildren), an element can also have ancestors (parents, grandparents)
If we have a paragraph element and we need to know the container, we can look at the parent

## Selection methods
THe most important DOM methods
THey allow you to select one or more document elements. The oldest 3 are:
- getElementById("id")
- getElementsByClassName("name")
- getElementsByTagName("name")

An img tag has "src" attribute to find picture data to render in the DOM, "alt" attribute for automatons and accessibility, etc.
We can say ".attribute" to refer to relevant attribute.
- innerHTML: represents all the content (text and tags) of the element

## Modifying the DOM
Now that you can access some of the node and element properties you might be wondering how one can make use of some of these properties. Since most of the properties listed in the previous tables are all read and write, this means that they can be programmatically changed.
- Changing an element's style
    - To programmatically modify the styles associated with a particular element, one must change the properties of the style property of that element.
        1. const node = document.getElementById("someId");
        2. node.style.backgroundColor = "#FFFF00"
        3. node.style.borderWidth = "3px";
    While this is the most general way to change the style of elements, in general we don't want elements to be individually styled because we have to edit some JS somewhere and it becomes a nightmare. Anticipate the behavior and sometimes the stuff in my store goes on sale, so I want it to be bold or highlighted and whatnot; so we make two styles for not-on-sale and on-sale items.
- Changing the content of any given element
- DOM manipulation methods

# How CSS styles can be programmatically manipulated in JavaScript
While you can directly change CSS style elements via this style property, it is generally preferable to change the appearance of an element instead using the className or classList property.

Because elements have so many different classes, we can refer to the classList, which offers add or remove. Toggling a class saves a very common if-else situation; "if something is on sale, add the on-sale class, if not, don't."

## JavaScript event handling
1. Event handler DEFINED:       design-time. you define a handler by writing a callback function.
2. Event handler REGISTERED:    design-time: you register the handler for a given event on an element by using the addEventListener method of a DOM element.
3. Event TRIGGERED:             run-time: a user or page action triggers the event
4. Event handler EXECUTES:      run-time: the registered handler for that event on that element executes (callback function is invoked).

# Anytime we talk about callback functions generally, in this case addEventListener is the most common function we'd use for event listening.
- What type are we listening for? Give a reference for our listener.
- Your listener will be called with an Event object.
- Keep in mind in JavaScript, a function that we define as taking no parameters can still be called with arbitrarily no parameters.
    - function onClick(ev) {}
    - You can call onClick without an event. If there's one, two, or three, you can still call it with zero or a hundred arguments.
    
## Implementing an Event handler
An event handler is first defined, then registered to an element node object. Registering an event handler requires passing a callback function to the addEventListener().
Function definitions with the function keyword are "hoisted", they are considered to happen before any function definitions within the current scope.
It's very popular in JavaScript to say I'm gonna write this function should happen whenever somethings click and there's no other part of this app where I want that function to be called, in that case I don't want this function to have a name so it doesn't autocomplete somehow. 
There's two kinds of anonymous syntax functions:
1. function (ev) {

    }
    - (notice how there's no actual function name)
    - One thing about the function keyword syntax, every time you start a function like this, "this" is going to change from what it previously referred to.
2. (ev) => {
        return ev;
    }
    - If I have exactly one parameter, the parentheses are optional.
    - If you have only one thing to do; a one-liner, you probably don't even need to put curly braces. So, you could write "(ev) => ev;"
    - In example 1, there is a special keyword "arguments", which is an array of all arguments that were passed to the function. This does not happen in example 2.
    - Having a function keyword with an identifier are the only ones that can be "hoisted", because in JS, function are first order members of the language. We can pass a function right into the call of a function.

## Event capture and bubbling
- By default, events bubble up from the event target to all of its ancestors
- Events can be captured down from the outermost ancestor to the event target.
We can click on the span, the span will first get this event and it has a chance to act upon the click. Whether or not the span was listening, next, its parents (the paragraph) will have an event listener for a click. So the event will "bubble" from the depth of the tree where it was all the way out into the root of the page. In the case of our Prep05, there are these color tiles that we click on. The only thing that's different is the colors and so the functionality is going to be the same for all those different files, so instead of listening to each span, we want to listen for the event on the paragraph. Sometimes this is a pain but there's going to be this automatic event I thought I already dealt with. One thing we can do is with a reference to that event object that is going to be passed, we can call stop propagation. The parent elements don't care about this so we can tell that event ".stopEventPropagation". On the other hand, sometimes we need to specifically give the parent elements the chance otb e the first one and not bubble all the way up.
- e.target: this is the element that generated the event.
- e.currentTarget: this is the element whose event handler is currently being executed. In this example, it could be the <span> or any of its ancestors.
The idea that maybe where we could put an individual function to handle each one of these three spans, instead, we could do it one time; this is called delegation.
